# COMP6080 Final Exam

For this exam you are provided with this public repostory (`exam-spec`) that all students have access to. This repository contains the questions being asked. You will then also have your own [personal exam repository](https://cgi.cse.unsw.edu.au/~cs6080/redirect/?path=COMP6080/21T3/students/_/exam) where you actually complete the work that will be submitted. The personal exam repo is where you actually commit and push your code.

If you are seeking information not provided in this file, check the [COMP6080 Exam Brief page](https://webcms3.cse.unsw.edu.au/COMP6080/21T3/resources/56789). If your question is still unanswered, follow the "Communicating with teaching staff" instructions.

## WARNING

This applies to all students completing the COMP6080 21T3 exam on Tuesday the 7th of December.

* This exam is an individual assessment. Any attempt to communicate with other people (both other students in this course and outside persons) about the contents of this exam will be treated as academic misconduct and may result in you failing this course. This applies to everyone during the exam time, as well as any communication between the end of your exam and Wednesday the 8th of December at 1pm. To avoid any doubt about your behaviour during the exam, cease all communication with other students for that time.
* From 1pm on Wednesday the 8th of December onward, you are only allowed to discuss the exam with students who have themselves also completed the exam, and it's your responsibility to check if they have.
* Your zpass should not be disclosed to any other person. If you have disclosed your zpass, you should change it immediately.
* Do not place your exam work in any location accessible to any other person. This includes services such as Dropbox and Github.
* If another student in the course makes any sort of contact with you during the exam, or you’re aware of any instances of other students breaching the conditions above, you are required to email cs6080@cse.unsw.edu.au with details of the interaction.

## Change Log

N/A

## 1. The Exam

### 1.1 Overview

You are to build a small single page application in ReactJS that has three basic interactive games, along with a dashboard acting as a homepage. You can do it in Vanilla JS if you prefer (like assignment 2), though please email Hayden after the exam to let him know you didn't use React.

### 1.2. Getting Started

Please clone your [personal exam repository](https://cgi.cse.unsw.edu.au/~cs6080/redirect/?path=COMP6080/21T3/students/_/exam).

Run `yarn install` to install all relevant dependencies to start.

Run `yarn start` to start your ReactJS app.

You are welcome to install any dependencies on top of ReactJS that you would like using `yarn add [dependency]`.

Please note: If you prefer to complete the exam with VanillaJS, then you can simply remove all files we've provided and start from an empty repo.

There is no backend in this application. The entire state you manage should be done in localstorage or another form of persistent browser storage.

### 1.2. Features

The numbers in brackets next to any items (e.g. "Make the page big (1)") describe the number of marks associated with that piece of functionality.

#### 1.2.0. Document & Navbar (10 marks)

* The overall body should have a `margin` of `0px`. (0.5)
* The overall body should have a `background-color` of `#000000`. (0.5)
* The navigation bar should exist in a `100%` width and `100px` height box that:
  * Is in a fixed position at the bottom of the body at all times (1)
  * Has a background colour of `#333` and font colour of `#fff` (1)
  * Has a border of `1px solid #fff` (0.5)
  * Has horizontal padding of `10%` (0.5)
  * Has 5 equally spaced boxes that contain:
    * A logo for the application (any picture you can find on the internet that is scaled down to `20px` x `20px`) and centered in the box. (1)
    * `Dashboard` text centered in the box (linking to /dashboard) (0.5)
    * `Math` text centered in the box (linking to /game/math) (0.5)
    * `Connect 4` text centered in the box (linking to /game/connect) (0.5)
    * `Memorisation` text centered in the box (linking to /game/memory) (0.5)
  * If the screen width drops below `1400px`, then:
    * The link's text, "Dashboard", "Math", "Connect 4", "Memorisation" becomes "Da", "Ma", "Me", "Co" (1)
    * The height of the side bar drops to `80px` (0.5)
  * If the screen width drops below `800px`, then:
    * The link's text, "Dashboard", "Math", "Connect 4", "Memorisation" becomes "Da", "Ma", "Me", "Co" (1)
    * The width of the side bar drops to `60px` (0.5)
 * The entirety of the space on the page that isn't used by the navbar at the bottom is referred to as the `main body`, and screens from `1.2.1`, `1.2.2`, `1.2.3`, and `1.2.4` should occupy that full space, unless otherwise specified. This main body should have a background colour of `#ccc`. (0.5)

#### 1.2.1. Dashboard (10 marks)

* This screen exists on route `/dashboard` and contains nav bar and other details from `1.2.0`. (0.5)

* This screen shall contain 4 boxes in a 2x2 grid. These boxes must have a border of color `#fff` but besides that, no other requirement is placed on how they are displayed visually. (2.5)
  * The top left box contains a single number that denotes the number of games remaining to be played to win. This number is defaulted to 5. (1)
    * If there is an internet connection, this number should be loaded in from the data found at this URL: [http://cgi.cse.unsw.edu.au/~cs6080/21T3/data/remain.json](http://cgi.cse.unsw.edu.au/~cs6080/21T3/data/remain.json) (2)
  * The top right box contains the number of games that the player has won since the last reset or very first page load. It defaults to zero. (1.5)
  * The bottom left box contains text that either says "Keep going" if there are still games to be won, or "Great job" if enough games have been won. (1.5)
  * The bottom right box contains a `(reset)` button. When this button is clicked, the number of games remaining to win is reset to its initial value and the number of games won is reset to 0 (1).

#### 1.2.2. Game 1 - Random Operators (13 marks)

* This screen exists on the route `/game/math` and contains the nav bar and other details from `1.2.0`. (0.5)
* This page will display 5 square containers, all lined up in a row (0.5).
  * Their widths will each be 20% of the parent container (0.5)
  * Their heights will be 40% of the parent container (0.5)
  * Each container should have a gradiented background that moves horizontally from left to right between `#abcabc` to `#cbacbd` (1).
  * The text colour in each container should be `#333` and it should be both vertically and horizontally centered within the container (1).
* The first and third container will contain a randomly generated number between 1 and 50 inclusive. This number is generated on the mounting of the component or on the click of the reset button below (2).
* The second container will be a randomly generated operator (one of `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%`). This operator is generated on the mounting of the component or on the click of the reset button below (1).
* The fourth container will consist of an `=` character (0.5).
* The fifth container consists of a small text input that is `50px` in width. (0.5)
  * Every time there is a keyup on this input, the system checks whether the value is equal to the math expression immediately to its left (rounded to 1 decimal place if it is a non-integer). E.g. `1 / 3 = _` expects a 0.3. If the value is correct, an alert appears on the screen saying `Congratulations` prior to resetting the values. This game is now considered to have been "won". (4)
* A reset button exists somewhere at the bottom that resets the game to new values. (1)

#### 1.2.3. Game 2 - Connect 4 (17 marks)

This page is a simplified implementation of the game [connect 4](TODO).

* This screen exists on the route `/game/connect` and contains the nav bar and other details from `1.2.0`. (0.5)
* This page will display 100 square containers, in a 10 by 10 configuration, each with a width of 10% and a height of 10%. (1.5)
  * The table of containers has borders around the outside of each square (`2px solid #333`) (1)
* This game consists of two players, each taking a turn. Once a player makes a click on a column (i.e. any squares within a particular vertical column), a coin is inserted into that column all the way to the bottom, their turn ends, and then the other player takes a turn. (4)
  * If it is Player 1's turn, the coin that is inserted is a blue circle. If it is Player 2's turn, the coin that is inserted is a red circle. (0.5)
* The game is complete when there are 4 coins of the same colour in a row. They can be in a row horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. (4)
* Once the game is complete, an animation occurs for 3 seconds where all the cells on the board should have their backgrounds oscillate between white (`#fff`) and black (`#000`) backgrounds every 0.5 seconds until the 3 seconds is over. (2)
* Once the game is complete, and after the animation, a box should appear over the board containing:
  * A background colour of `#fff`, a `1px solid #333` border, width of `200px` and height of `50px` (1)
  * The box should also contain `14pt` font-size text inside that either says "[??] wins" if a user has won, or "No one wins" if no one won. "??" is replace with either `Player1` or `Player2` (1.5)
  * Somewhere in this box should contain a piece of text saying "A total of X moves were complete" where X is the number of cells that either Player 1 or Player 2 has filled (number of non empty cells). (1)
* This game is considered to have been "won" when player 1 wins the game.

[A short video demonstration of this game can be found here](https://youtu.be/kiO4xsrjEjw). Please note - do not copy what you see in this video. There are parts of this video that may not comply with the specification. This is purely here to give you a very general sense of the behaviour in case you are struggling to visualise it.

#### 1.2.4. Game 3 - Memorisation (17 marks)

This game is loosely based off of a [memorisation game](https://youtu.be/ki43Fp7dEos).

* This screen exists on the route `/game/memory` and contains the nav bar and other details from `1.2.0`. (0.5)
* This page will consist of a 4 x 4 grid of cells that are all 25% width and 25% height of the surrounding container (so that they are all evenly distributed). (2)
  * The cells have a border of `rgb(255,255,0) 1px solid` and have a background colour of white. (1)
* When the component mounts, or when the game is reset, an confirmation box pops up that asks "Would you like to play?". If the user clicks yes/confirm, then the game begins. If the user clicks no, then the dialogue disappears and nothing happens until the game is reset again (1).

* Gameplay is as follows:
  1) Begin stage 1: (4.5)

     a) A random cell in the grid flashes (i.e. has background `#999` for 0.5 seconds)

     b) Once complete, the user is then able to click on any of the cells. If they click on the random cell that flashed before, they move onto stage 2. If they click the wrong one, all cells flash with a `red` background for 0.5 seconds and the user repeats this step.
  2) Begin stage 2: (5)

     a) A random cell in the grid flashes for 0.5s, and then a second random cell in the grid flashes immediately after for 0.5s. These cells can be the same.

     b) Once the flashing in (a) is complete, the user is then able to click on any of the cells. They need to click on two cells one at a time, in the same order originally displayed. If they click on them in the correct order, they move onto stage 3. If they click on them in the wrong order, all cells flash with a `red` background for 0.5 seconds and the user repeats this step.
  3) Begin stage 3: stage 3 is identical to stage 2 except there are 3 cells to memorise (1)
  4) Begin stage 4: stage 4 is identical to stage 3 except there are 4 cells to memorise (1)
  5) Begin stage 5: stage 5 is identical to stage 4 except there are 5 cells to memorise, and when they guess them successfully there is an alert that says `Congratulations` and the game is now considered to have been "won", and the game repeats. (1)

[A short video demonstration of this game can be found here](https://youtu.be/1uvUgfBRJWM). Please note - do not copy what you see in this video. There are parts of this video that may not comply with the specification. This is purely here to give you a very general sense of the behaviour in case you are struggling to visualise it.

### 1.3. Other notes

* If we don't specify a constraint, then you have discretion as to what to do, assuming it still ensures that your application is usable and accessible.
* If a CSS property constraint is not specified (e.g. font size) then you are free to use whatever is reasonable and usable.
* While we don't specify many requirements around usability and accessibility, you should take initiative to make your work both usable and accessible to gain the marks in that area.
* You should ensure that your programs have been tested on one of the following two browsers:
  * Locally, Google Chrome
  * On CSE machines, Chromium

## 2. Marking Criteria

For each of sections, marks will be awarded according to the following criteria:
 * 80%: Providing the features and functionality required at least one of desktop, tablet, or mobile.
 * 20%: Ensuring responsiveness on desktop, tablet, mobile
   * Desktop testing will be done on a `1800px` x `800px` viewport size
   * Tablet testing will be done on a `1200px` x `500px` viewport size
   * Mobile testing will be done on a `600px` x `500px` viewport size

## 3. Submission

At the end of your specified exam time, we will automatically collect the code on your `master` branch's HEAD (i.e. latest commit). **ENSURE THAT YOU PUSH YOUR WORK UP TO GITLAB OR YOU WILL POTENTIALLY RECEIVE 0 FOR THE EXAM**.

Please note: If you develop locally ensure you check that your code works on the CSE servers. Failure to do so could result in a fail mark in the exam.

## 4. Originality of Work

The work you submit must be your own work. Submission of work partially or completely derived from any other person or jointly written with any other person is not permitted.

The penalties for such an offence may include negative marks, automatic failure of the course and possibly other academic discipline. Assignment submissions will be examined both automatically and manually for such submissions.

Relevant scholarship authorities will be informed if students holding scholarships are involved in an incident of plagiarism or other misconduct.

Do not provide or show your assignment work to any other person — apart from the teaching staff of COMP6080.

If you knowingly provide or show your assignment work to another person for any reason, and work derived from it is submitted, you may be penalized, even if the work was submitted without your knowledge or consent.  This may apply even if your work is submitted by a third party unknown to you.

Note you will not be penalized if your work has the potential to be taken without your consent or
knowledge.
